[SOOTHING MUSIC PLAYING]
>> My name is Michelle, and I
come from a background of being
a massage therapist and a
Reiki master, reflexologist,
and aroma therapist.
So I've had a background in
natural therapies and healing
and have worked in a
number of spas as well.
So have things
like Vichy showers,
and hydrotherapy
baths, and clay wraps,
and all those wonderful things.
But I've also come from a
background of being in office
and working in administration
as well, and travel as well.
So I've been to many places, and
with sound healing I actually
have experienced many different
forms of sounds throughout
different areas
in the world and--
such as the mother drum that
came to Australia from America,
which is the huge
Native American drum
and experiencing
things like that.
And also, I've wanted crystal
balls for a number of years,
because I found I really
resonated with crystal balls.
I also do djembe
drumming as well,
so music has been a part of
my life for many years now.
And I have found that
with the crystal balls
I feel very much
at home with them
and resonate on a very
deep level with them.
>> Hi.
I'm Prakash.
I came from a background steeped
in design and construction
of one-off extravaganzas
that went all over Australia.
And got into a lot of
carving, sculpting, et cetera,
and employed people in
the middle of a city.
That all came to
a very abrupt halt
when I discovered that my body
was full of petrochemicals,
and I was becoming one
of those people who
had a choice of either living in
a plastic bubble in a hospital
or going out to the
bush and getting away
from the built environment.
So I very quickly found
a place, fortunately,
in the middle of
forest near Noosa.
And I was nursed for
six months of the year
that I spent there
because cancers
were being formed and
presenting as a result
of the petrochemical actually
ruining my immune system.
So there was a while there
where I was detoxed, incredibly
sensitive, barely able to
walk in the early stages
of partial recovery when I
realized the power of sound.
I've always played musical
instruments, guitar and flute
in particular, but I'd also
been commissioned about two
years before all
this happened to me
to make Native American
flutes and drums.
And I got permission
to do this, as I
have with many different
cultures with their carvings
and so forth.
We always acknowledge the
custodians of the land
here, whenever we
do chakra toning.
Land being Australia, the
area the Sunshine Coast,
so we always acknowledge
the Gubbi Gubbi people here
as well with every
chakra toning we do.
So I'll mention that now.
And I discovered the flutes
and drums which I'd made
were affecting me in a way
that I'd never noticed before,
as were the sounds
of the forest.
So I wound up realizing that
a lot of my actual healing
process was coming from
just harmonizing and being
with the sounds of the forest.
I found I could communicate
to a small degree
with the wild curlews
and the dingoes.
They would respond, and call
back, and come in closer.
So nature responds to sound.
I was beginning to realize
that my nature equally
responded to sound.
Also, I was introduced to
chakras for the first time
ever.
And it was a Tibetan Lao
Tzu self-healing system,
where you envisage
five chakras and rather
like what we're doing
here, you envisage a color.
You also have a chant that
goes with each chakra.
And to my surprise, to my
skeptical mind in those days,
within four days I was
noticing an energy boost
purely from doing that.
Now, I've done a lot of basic
martial arts and Hatha yoga
breathing, the pranayams
and so forth before this.
And I was incorporating
that as part of my healing,
so I was very surprised to
discover this envisaging
technique and going through the
chakras had tremendous benefit.
And years later, we discover
that what that benefit is
in various parts of the body.
So now, I'm involved
with making.
I play Kirtan,
which is basically
the ancient Indian process.
Kirtan, many people will know
has gone ballistic worldwide.
And Michelle plays with
me in a Kirtan band,
and we travel to various
groups of people up and down
the countryside really.
And I've recorded Kirtan
with Alissa Nathaniel,
the wonderful ex-Jazz
Singer in Bali.
And you really realize
the international swell
of fascination with
sound worldwide
and with sound healing.
I've had the good fortune to
meet Ravi Shankar's top pupil,
who showed me how he could heal
people by playing the sitar,
which he played so gloriously.
And I've supported Tibetan monks
and others with our Kirtans
and with various concerts.
So I'm now involved far more
in the healing nature of sound,
having had some profound
experience of it myself,
and we've seen people
change a lot in the groups
that we're sort of running,
if you can call it that.
We offer these things.
And I'm now involved in making
rather large sound healing
instruments, which is something
coming up in the future.
So for both of us, I
met Michelle, listened
to her poetry, and I started
to compose music around that,
and we wound up singing
in a group of three of us.
And somehow that led
organically into us just
listening to tones and sound
once she got the balls.
And this process has
been entirely organic.
We haven't envisaged doing this.
We've just fallen into doing it.
And now, it's grown
exponentially.
So we hope you thoroughly
enjoy what we've had to offer.
And we'll tell you
a little bit more
about the process next perhaps.
[SOOTHING MUSIC PLAYING]